---
layout: post
title: Hello
date: 2017-01-08 12:00:00-0500
category: welcome
---
Hello there!

This is my first post and it's only a few lines length.
As you can see in [about](/about), I've just started this blog (~~The nth attempt
of having one~~) and I'll focus the posts redaction as if I were writing in my
personal notebook, trying to reinforce the knowledge that I'm acquiring about
different topics.

I have to say that I ~~am~~ was very insecure about writing a blog involving
technical topics because I feel like a beginner in various aspects, so my focus
will be about sharing knowledge and getting feedback of you, dear reader.
Another reason to start this project is a discussion that I had with Miguel
Vilá [here (Spanish)](https://twitter.com/mglvl/status/799465778441551876)
in where he encourages people to write a blog and publish content, no matter
if it isn't new or if it isn't about an "advanced" topic. I'll cite his reply to
a tweet of mine telling him that I felt very insecure to write because of my
*level* (skillset):

> That thing about "having enough level" is a myth. Blogging about things
that oneself thinks that are valuable it's indeed valuable.

Daniel, a co-worker ([@DTuttleO](https://twitter.com/DtuttleO)) also told me
the same thing, because he started his own blog recently ([you can find out more
here](http://www.dtuttleo.com/)). This two factors and the imperative need of
process the knowledge that I'm acquiring in a better way motivated me to start
this journey.

So here we are!

Last, but not least... you'll see that English is not my first language but
I'll focus to write in this language for various reasons: for learning it and
for reach a wider audience, among others. However, you'll see one or another post
in Spanish.

Welcome and thanks for read! :)
